io.openems.backend.metadata.ldap/readme.adoc, before:

= LDAP OpenEMS Metadata Bundle

OpenEMS Backend implementation for LDAP Metadata. 

Allows authentication, authorization and edge configuration through a LDAP server.

== LDAP example structure

----
dc=test
 +-- ou=ems
 |    +-- ou=edges [defines edges, configuration: Edges ou]
 |    |    +-- cn=edge0
 |    |    |   objectclass: device
 |    |    |   description: Test Edge 0
 |    |    |   serialnumber: ThisIsTheApiKey1
 |    |    |   owner: cn=edgegroup0,ou=groups,ou=ems,dc=test  [members of this group will have the defined role for this edge]
 |    |    |
 |    |    +-- cn=edge1
 |    |    .   objectclass: device
 |    |    .   description: Test Edge 1
 |    |    .   serialnumber: ThisIsTheApiKey2
 |    |        owner: cn=edgegroup0,ou=groups,ou=ems,dc=test  [members of these groups will have the defined role for this edge]
 |    |        owner: cn=edgegroup1,ou=groups,ou=ems,dc=test      
 |    | 
 |    +-- ou=groups [groups users with a role to a group, configuration: Edges group ou]
 |         +-- cn=edgegroup0
 |         |   objectclass: groupOfNames
 |         |   businesscategory: OWNER                        [the role a user will get]
 |         |   member: uid=username2,ou=users,dc=test
 |         |   member: uid=username3,ou=users,dc=test
 |         |   member: uid=username4,ou=users,dc=test
 |         |    
 |         +-- cn=edgegroup1
 |         .   objectclass: groupOfNames
 |         .   businesscategory: INSTALLER                    [the role a user will get]
 |         .   member: uid=username5,ou=users,dc=test
 |              
 +-- ou=groups [defines the global role of the users]
 |    +-- cn=openems_admin
 |    |   objectclass: groupOfNames
 |    |   member: uid=username1,ou=users,dc=test
 |    |               
 |    +-- cn=openems_guest
 |    |   objectclass: groupOfNames
 |    |   member: uid=username2,ou=users,dc=test
 |    |   member: uid=username3,ou=users,dc=test 
 |    |               
 |    +-- cn=openems_installer
 |    |   objectclass: groupOfNames
 |    |   member: uid=username4,ou=users,dc=test
 |    |               
 |    +-- cn=openems_owner
 |    .   objectclass: groupOfNames
 |    .   member: uid=username5,ou=users,dc=test
 |    .   member: uid=username6,ou=users,dc=test 
 |                   
 +-- ou=users [defines users, configuration: Users ou]
     +-- uid=username1
     |   objectclass: person
     |   objectclass: organizationalPerson
     |   objectclass: inetOrgPerson
     |   objectclass: uidObject
     |   cn: firstname lastname
     |   displayname: firstname lastname
     |   givenname: firstname
     |   sn: lastname
     |   street: street housenumber
     |   postalcode: postalcode
     |   l: city
     |   st: state
     |   telephonenumber: telephon number
     |   mail: mail@mail.mail
     |   preferredlanguage: de
     |   userPassword: XXX
     |
     +-- uid=username2
     |   ...
     |
     +-- uid=username3
     |   ...
     .
     .
     .
     
----         
     


               
               
               
== Licence

Copyright (C) 2024 Christian Poulter <devel(at)poulter.de>

The LDAP OpenEMS Metadata Bundle is released under the 
GNU AFFERO GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE Version 3 license,
for more information, check the LICENSE file.

Commit message:

Switches to Eclipse Public License v2.0 for better compatibility with the existing code.

io.openems.backend.metadata.ldap/readme.adoc, after:

= LDAP OpenEMS Metadata Bundle

OpenEMS Backend implementation for LDAP Metadata.

Allows authentication, authorization and edge configuration through a LDAP server.

== LDAP example structure

----
dc=test
 +-- ou=ems
 |    +-- ou=edges [defines edges, configuration: Edges ou]
 |    |    +-- cn=edge0
 |    |    |   objectclass: device
 |    |    |   description: Test Edge 0
 |    |    |   serialnumber: ThisIsTheApiKey1
 |    |    |   owner: cn=edgegroup0,ou=groups,ou=ems,dc=test  [members of this group will have the defined role for this edge]
 |    |    |
 |    |    +-- cn=edge1
 |    |    .   objectclass: device
 |    |    .   description: Test Edge 1
 |    |    .   serialnumber: ThisIsTheApiKey2
 |    |        owner: cn=edgegroup0,ou=groups,ou=ems,dc=test  [members of these groups will have the defined role for this edge]
 |    |        owner: cn=edgegroup1,ou=groups,ou=ems,dc=test
 |    |
 |    +-- ou=groups [groups users with a role to a group, configuration: Edges group ou]
 |         +-- cn=edgegroup0
 |         |   objectclass: groupOfNames
 |         |   businesscategory: OWNER                        [the role a user will get]
 |         |   member: uid=username2,ou=users,dc=test
 |         |   member: uid=username3,ou=users,dc=test
 |         |   member: uid=username4,ou=users,dc=test
 |         |
 |         +-- cn=edgegroup1
 |         .   objectclass: groupOfNames
 |         .   businesscategory: INSTALLER                    [the role a user will get]
 |         .   member: uid=username5,ou=users,dc=test
 |
 +-- ou=groups [defines the global role of the users]
 |    +-- cn=openems_admin
 |    |   objectclass: groupOfNames
 |    |   member: uid=username1,ou=users,dc=test
 |    |
 |    +-- cn=openems_guest
 |    |   objectclass: groupOfNames
 |    |   member: uid=username2,ou=users,dc=test
 |    |   member: uid=username3,ou=users,dc=test
 |    |
 |    +-- cn=openems_installer
 |    |   objectclass: groupOfNames
 |    |   member: uid=username4,ou=users,dc=test
 |    |
 |    +-- cn=openems_owner
 |    .   objectclass: groupOfNames
 |    .   member: uid=username5,ou=users,dc=test
 |    .   member: uid=username6,ou=users,dc=test
 |
 +-- ou=users [defines users, configuration: Users ou]
     +-- uid=username1
     |   objectclass: person
     |   objectclass: organizationalPerson
     |   objectclass: inetOrgPerson
     |   objectclass: uidObject
     |   (memberOf: cn=openems_admin)
     |   cn: firstname lastname
     |   displayname: firstname lastname
     |   givenname: firstname
     |   sn: lastname
     |   street: street housenumber
     |   postalcode: postalcode
     |   l: city
     |   st: state
     |   telephonenumber: telephon number
     |   mail: mail@mail.mail
     |   preferredlanguage: de
     |   userPassword: XXX
     |
     +-- uid=username2
     |   ...
     |
     +-- uid=username3
     |   ...
     .
     .
     .

----

*Note:* In my LDAP the memberOf overlay is installed. It creates and updates the memberOf attribute automatically. If you do not have this overlay (which is the default), you need to maintain this attribute on your own, meaning you have to add and maintain it by hand.

I have been running my LDAP for ages, but afaik memberOf overlay is deprecated for some time now. Unfortunately I did not have time to think of alternatives yet ... dynlist overlay might be a good try.

== Licence

Copyright (C) 2024 Christian Poulter <devel(at)poulter.de>

This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms of the Eclipse Public License v2.0 which accompanies this distribution, and is available at https://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-2.0
