io.openems.edge.core/readme.adoc, before:

= Core services for OpenEMS Edge

== ComponentManager

A service that provides easy access to OpenEMS-Components and Channels. It also provides some sub-services:

DefaultConfigurationWorker::
Applies a default configuration, i.e. activates certain OpenEMS Components that are to be enabled by default on deployment, like Modbus-TCP-Slave Api and JSON/REST Api.

OsgiValidateWorker::
Checks if configured Components are actually enabled.

OutOfMemoryHeapDumpWorker::
Checks for heap-dump files which get created if OpenEMS Edge crashed because of an OutOfMemory-Error in a previous run.

== Cycle

Provides the core runtime Cycle of OpenEMS Edge

== Host

A service that provides host and operating system specific commands like configuration of TCP/IP network.

== Meta

A service that provides 'OpenemsConstants' as Channels so that they are available via Apis; example: _meta/Version for the current version of OpenEMS Edge.

== Sum

A service that holds summed up information on the power and energy flows, like aggregated production, consumption and energy storage charge/discharge. 

== AppManager

A service for managing Apps. It creates, deletes and updates Components, Network configuration and the execute order of the Components in the scheduler.

== App

The predefined Apps for the AppManager.

Commit message:

Rework of Timer
Previous PR of Timer reworked, now easier and more simple to use them.

io.openems.edge.core/readme.adoc, after:

= Core services for OpenEMS Edge

== ComponentManager

A service that provides easy access to OpenEMS-Components and Channels. It also provides some sub-services:

DefaultConfigurationWorker::
Applies a default configuration, i.e. activates certain OpenEMS Components that are to be enabled by default on deployment, like Modbus-TCP-Slave Api and JSON/REST Api.

OsgiValidateWorker::
Checks if configured Components are actually enabled.

OutOfMemoryHeapDumpWorker::
Checks for heap-dump files which get created if OpenEMS Edge crashed because of an OutOfMemory-Error in a previous run.

== Cycle

Provides the core runtime Cycle of OpenEMS Edge

== Host

A service that provides host and operating system specific commands like configuration of TCP/IP network.

== Meta

A service that provides 'OpenemsConstants' as Channels so that they are available via Apis; example: _meta/Version for the current version of OpenEMS Edge.

== Sum

A service that holds summed up information on the power and energy flows, like aggregated production, consumption and energy storage charge/discharge.

== AppManager

A service for managing Apps. It creates, deletes and updates Components, Network configuration and the execute order of the Components in the scheduler.

== App

The predefined Apps for the AppManager.

== TimerManager

Access to different kind of timers. Can be used to

* `timerManager.getTimerCount()` - count each call to the timer.
* `timerManager.getTimerCoreCycles()` - count each core cycle.
* `timerManager.getTimerTimer()` - count a given time in seconds.
