io.openems.edge.io.siemenslogo/readme.adoc, before:

= io.openems.edge.io.siemenslogo



First you have to configure a modbus server in LogoSoft which either accepts all connection sources or you limit this to your EMS-system Like all other modbus devices you have to configure a modbus-ID (255 is default in LogoSoft!) and a start address, e.g. 100 or use the default address 0.

If you don´t do any changes the addresses are configured as coils. In Logo! a virtual address (V) is written 0.0 which is the virtual address 0, Bit 0. For the connected device the coil-addresses start with 800 (first bit/coil), 801 is the second coil and so on

You can either talk to the relay outputs directly or configure network inputs with corresponding virtual addresses. This depends on your needs - respectively if you want to add some logic on the Logo.

In my case the addresses start with offset 808 which is virtual address 101.0 in the logo. So you need to configure the network inputs 101.0 -101.3 (for a 4 digital outputs standard Logo!)


https://github.com/OpenEMS/openems/tree/develop/io.openems.edge.io.siemenslogo[Source Code icon:github[]]

Commit message:

Added differnt offsets for reading and writing

io.openems.edge.io.siemenslogo/readme.adoc, after:

= io.openems.edge.io.siemenslogo



First you have to configure a modbus server in LogoSoft which either accepts all connection sources or you limit this to your EMS-system Like all other modbus devices you have to configure a modbus-ID (255 is default in LogoSoft!) and a start address, e.g. 100 or use the default address 0.

If you don´t do any changes the addresses are configured as coils. In Logo! a virtual address (V) is written 0.0 which is the virtual address 0, Bit 0. For the connected device the coil-addresses start with 800 (first bit/coil), 801 is the second coil and so on

You can either talk to the relay outputs directly or configure network inputs with corresponding virtual addresses. This depends on your needs - respectively if you want to add some logic on the Logo.

In my case the addresses start with offset 808 which is virtual address 101.0 in the logo. So you need to configure the network inputs 101.0 -101.3 (for a 4 digital outputs standard Logo!)

Sometimes it is better to have different addresses for reading and writing. So you can leave it to Logo!`s logic what to do with DIs/DOs


https://github.com/OpenEMS/openems/tree/develop/io.openems.edge.io.siemenslogo[Source Code icon:github[]]
