doc/modules/ROOT/pages/intellij.adoc, before:

= IntelliJ IDEA
:imagesdir: ../assets/images
:sectnums:
:sectnumlevels: 4
:toc:
:toclevels: 4
:experimental:
:keywords: AsciiDoc
:source-highlighter: highlight.js
:icons: font

== Setup IntelliJ IDEA for OpenEMS Edge and Backend

. Prepare Intellij IDEA
.. Download Java Development Kit (JDK) 11 and install it. We recommend the https://adoptium.net/?variant=openjdk11&jvmVariant=hotspot[OpenJDK Temurin builds by the Adoptium project]
.. We use the Amdatu Plugin. Please confirm that the plugin is compatible with the latest version. See the https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/10639-amdatu/versions[Amdatu homepage icon:external-link[]].
.. With the toolbox you can select the right version https://www.jetbrains.com/toolbox-app/download/[Intellij Version icon:external-link[]].
.. To avoid incompatible updates, you may disable Auto-Updates in the Toolbox. It is also possible to select a earlier version if the update was done accidentally
.. Search under Plugins "Amdatu" und "Checkstyle"
+
.IntelliJ settings
image::intellij-settings.png[Settings]
+
.Install plugins
image::intellij-plugins.png[Plugins]
.. Preparing your project with intellij
+
.IntelliJ project import from existing source
image::intellij-project-import.png[]
.Select directory to import
image::intellij-select-directory.png[]
.. Select Bnd/bndtools
+
.Bnd import
image::intellij-import-bnd.png[]
.. Build OpenEMS Edge in IntelliJ
+
.build.gradle
image::intellij-build-gradle.png[]
.. or alternativly make an configuration "edit configuration"
+
.build gradle over configuration
image::intellij-add-configuration.png[]
.. creating a new module
+
.creating a modul
image::intellij-new-module.png[]
+
Rightclick on an existing module: New -> Module
+
Amdatu-> Project Template Project (Stringtemplate)

== Hints - intellij problems
.. If you have some problems - for example java version is not found: look in File -> Project Structure -> Project
+
.check java version
image::intellij-java.png[]
.. If there is the module not correctly loaded, you can see that the blue square is not present
+
.not loaded modules
image::intellij-load-modul.png[]
+
This can be fixed via Tools -> Amdatu -> Refresh-Workspace. If it is still not working: File -> Invalidate Caches/Restart

Commit message:

Expanded intellij Documentation to include the ability to use the eclipse code format

doc/modules/ROOT/pages/intellij.adoc, after:

= IntelliJ IDEA
:imagesdir: ../assets/images
:sectnums:
:sectnumlevels: 4
:toc:
:toclevels: 4
:experimental:
:keywords: AsciiDoc
:source-highlighter: highlight.js
:icons: font

== Setup IntelliJ IDEA for OpenEMS Edge and Backend

. Prepare Intellij IDEA
.. Download Java Development Kit (JDK) 11 and install it. We recommend the https://adoptium.net/?variant=openjdk11&jvmVariant=hotspot[OpenJDK Temurin builds by the Adoptium project]
.. We use the Amdatu Plugin. Please confirm that the plugin is compatible with the latest version. See the https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/10639-amdatu/versions[Amdatu homepage icon:external-link[]].
.. With the toolbox you can select the right version https://www.jetbrains.com/toolbox-app/download/[Intellij Version icon:external-link[]].
.. To avoid incompatible updates, you may disable Auto-Updates in the Toolbox. It is also possible to select a earlier version if the update was done accidentally
.. Search under Plugins "Amdatu" und "Checkstyle"
+
.IntelliJ settings
image::intellij-settings.png[Settings]
+
.Install plugins
image::intellij-plugins.png[Plugins]
.. Preparing your project with intellij
+
.IntelliJ project import from existing source
image::intellij-project-import.png[]
.Select directory to import
image::intellij-select-directory.png[]
.. Select Bnd/bndtools
+
.Bnd import
image::intellij-import-bnd.png[]
.. Build OpenEMS Edge in IntelliJ
+
.build.gradle
image::intellij-build-gradle.png[]
.. or alternativly make an configuration "edit configuration"
+
.build gradle over configuration
image::intellij-add-configuration.png[]
.. creating a new module
+
.creating a modul
image::intellij-new-module.png[]
+
Rightclick on an existing module: New -> Module
+
Amdatu-> Project Template Project (Stringtemplate)
+
.. add Support for Eclipse Code Formatting
+
Search for 'Adapter for Eclipse Code Formatter' in the Plugin store
+
.download Adapter for Eclipse Code Formatter
image::intellij-code-formatter.png[]
+
After restarting the IDE go to Settings -> Other Settings -> Adapter for Eclipse Code Formatter
+
.Adapter Settings
image::intellij-code-formatter-settings.png[]
+
Check the radiobutton for "Use Eclipse's Code Formatter"
+
.Enable Adapter
image::intellij-code-formatter-enable.png[]
+
Type in your Eclipse installation folder
+
.Set Eclipse Path
image::intellij-code-formatter-path.png[]
+
Choose 'Eclipse 2.1 [built-in]' as a formatter config
+
.Choose Format
image::intellij-code-formatter-format.png[]
Now Reformat Code will use the Eclipse format (e.g. Use TAB instead of Whitespaces)

== Hints - intellij problems
.. If you have some problems - for example java version is not found: look in File -> Project Structure -> Project
+
.check java version
image::intellij-java.png[]
.. If there is the module not correctly loaded, you can see that the blue square is not present
+
.not loaded modules
image::intellij-load-modul.png[]
+
This can be fixed via Tools -> Amdatu -> Refresh-Workspace. If it is still not working: File -> Invalidate Caches/Restart
